---
title: Hackers Hate AI Slop Even More Than You Do
date: 2026-05-21
categories: [TECHNOLOGY]
tags: [HACKERS,AI,CYBERCRIME,SECURITY]
---

## Hackers Hate AI Slop Even More Than You Do

"I'm disappointed that you are working to incorporate AI garbage into the site," one annoyed person, posting anonymously, said in an online message. This is not just a regular internet user moaning about AI being forced into their favorite app; instead, they are complaining about a cybercrime forum's plans to introduce more generative AI. Like millions of others, scammers, grifters, and low-level hackers are getting annoyed about AI encroaching into their lives and the rise of low-quality AI slop being posted in their online communities. **"People don't like it,"** says Ben Collier, a security researcher and senior lecturer at the University of Edinburgh.

As part of a recent study into how low-level cybercriminals are using AI, Collier and fellow researchers spotted an increasing pushback over the use of generative AI in underground cybercrime forums and hacking groups.

The researchers analyzed 97,895 AI-related conversations on cybercrime forums since the launch of ChatGPT in 2022 until the end of last year. They found complaints about people dumping "bullet-pointed explainers" of basic cybersecurity concepts, moaning about the number of low-quality posts, and concerns about Google's AI search overviews driving down the number of visitors to the forums. **"These are essentially social spaces. They really hate other people using [AI] on the forums,"** Collier says. He explains that the social dynamic of the groups can be disrupted by potential cybercriminals trying to gain a better reputation by posting AI-generated hacking explainers. **"I think a lot of them are a bit ambivalent about AI because it undermines their claim to be a skilled person."

Posts reviewed by WIRED on Hack Forums, a self-styled space for those interested in talking about hacking and sharing techniques, show an irritation caused by people creating posts with AI. **"I see a lot of members using AI for making their threads/posts and it pisses me off since they don't even take the time to write a simple sentence or two,"** one poster wrote. Another put it more bluntly: **"Stop posting AI shit."** In several instances, Collier says, users of multiple forums appear to be irritated by AI posts as they want to make friends. **"If I wanted to talk to an AI chatbot, there are many websites for me to do so ... I come here for human interaction,"** one post cited in the research says.

Since ChatGPT emerged toward the end of 2022, there has been significant interest in AI-hacking capabilities and how the technology can transform online crime. **"More sophisticated threat actors are aware of the shortfalls of commercial models that have guardrails, and they know ways to jailbreak those prompts,"** says Ian Gray, vice president of intelligence at the security company Flashpoint. **"They're also cautious of AI-generated projects in forums or marketplaces--there are weaknesses and vulnerabilities, sometimes exposing the underlying infrastructure,"** Gray says. Flashpoint has seen hackers recently talking about the potential capabilities of Claude Mythos Preview, Anthropic's latest frontier AI model. Collier says that so far, among the lower-level cybercriminals that his study tracked--not sophisticated or nation-state-backed hackers--there hasn't been any obvious signs of **"real disruption"** caused by AI. **"It has not significantly reduced the skill barrier to entry, nor has it led to serious disruptions to established business models or practices,"** the study says. **"Instead, its main impact has been on already highly automated areas such as SEO fraud, social media bots, and some forms of romance scam.**

[Read full article](https://www.wired.com/story/cybercriminals-are-complaining-about-ai-slop-flooding-their-forums/)