---
title: Bad Memories Still Haunt AI Agents
date: 2026-04-23
categories: [AI SECURITY]
tags: [AI,SECURITY,MEMORY,THREATS]
---

## Bad Memories Still Haunt AI Agents

AI memory files and context data help personalize requests and provide additional information that large-language and other foundational AI models can use to deliver the best responses. However, a persistent issue is proving to be a fundamental weakness in the security of AI systems. In March, Cisco researchers discovered they could compromise the memory files of Anthropic's Claude Code and maintain persistence, effectively infecting every project and session of the AI coding assistant. Using this technique, the researchers were able to introduce hard-coded secrets into production code, cause Claude Code to select insecure packages and configuration options, and push those changes to another development team member, according to a published post on the research. While Anthropic has since mitigated the issue, AI memory files represent a weak point in the security of the systems that need to be better protected, says Amy Chang, head of AI threat intelligence and security research for Cisco. Because memory and context data are incorporated into future requests, they can be used to corrupt the output of AI systems and applications. 

> "You get the convenience of not having to reload the same files and dependencies and directories, but at the same time, the trade-off is you could potentially be opening yourself up to potential risk," Chang says. AI memory files and context data have become a focus for attackers looking to compromise AI applications and gain persistence, as they hold the state of a particular user session and, in the long term, the user's overall preferences. Researchers at Princeton University and Sentient AI found that attackers can insert fake memories into the data used by AI, manipulating its responses and decisions, while Radware threat researchers demonstrated ways to use indirection prompt injection (IPI) to compromise the connectors used by OpenAI's ChatGPT to link to third-party services. The latest Cisco research also highlights a major problem with securing AI systems. Any text file could contain information that, when included in a memory file, can cause malicious behavior, says Chang. "Even your markdown files can be vectors," she adds.

Cisco's latest attack focused on using the post-install hooks in the Node Package Manager (NPM) as a vector to modify Claude Code's memory.md file. Because the first 200 lines of the memory.md file were included in Claude Code's system prompt, the attack persisted across sessions. Other dependency files -- such as claude.md (Anthropic's Claude), agents.md (OpenAI's Codex), and soul.md (OpenClaw) -- are also risks that users of agentic AI will have to analyze and maintain, Cisco's Chang says. While poisoned Node Package Manager (NPM) components are a popular way to attack LLMs, there are many other vectors, says Jay Chen, senior principal security researcher with Palo Alto Networks. "The root cause is prompt injection, which remains an open and unsolved problem," he says. "Any AI agents or GenAI applications that rely on an LLM to manage memory can be susceptible to memory poisoning."

Retaining memory files for a long time may itself be a security weakness. While malicious additions to memory files are hard to detect, various AI security vendors, including Cisco, Palo Alto Networks, Snyk, Meta, and SentinelOne, have developed tools to scan memory files for malicious modifications and to block attacks on AI systems. Because the files will continue to be targeted by attackers, adopting these tools is key to defense, says Cisco's Chang. "Having additional layers of protection on top of [the memory processing] ... would probably improve security," she says. "We released a lot of open-source scanners that can scan those dependency files that would surface something like this, where you have a poison memory file." Companies may also want to regularly delete memory files, especially if there are concerns over whether they have been maliciously modified, says Palo Alto Networks' Chen. "If there is any doubt, the safest approach is to purge the memory."

To read the complete article see:
[Read full article](https://www.darkreading.com/vulnerabilities-threats/bad-memories-haunt-ai-agents)