---
title: Drawn to Danger Windows Graphics Vulnerabilities Lead to Remote Code Execution and Memory Exposure
date: 2025-11-02
categories: [VULNERABILITIES]
tags: [WINDOWS,GRAPHICS,SECURITY,REMOTE CODE EXECUTION]
---

Check Point Research (CPR) identified three security vulnerabilities in the Graphics Device Interface (GDI) in Windows. We promptly reported these issues to Microsoft, and they were addressed in the Patch Tuesday updates in May, July, and August 2025. These are the vulnerabilities: CVE-2025-30388, rated important and considered more likely to be exploited; CVE-2025-53766, classified as critical severity and may allow remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on affected systems; CVE-2025-47984, also rated important and can result in the unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information over the network.

We identified a fourth crash while processing an EmfPlusDrawRects record. An access violation exception occurred in the ScanOperation::AlphaDivide_sRGB() function within version 10.0.26100.4202 of GdiPlus.dll, as it attempted to write to reserved but unallocated memory. This vulnerability could allow a remote attacker to perform an out-of-bounds memory write using a specially crafted EMF+ metafile. Further analysis showed that the EpScanBitmap::NextBuffer() function never verified that the number of scan-lines it was about to process fit in the destination bitmap, allowing the function to read or write past the bottom edge of an image if a call requested more scan-lines than existed. This vulnerability was addressed with KB5063878 in the August 2025 Patch Tuesday as a critical severity remote code execution vulnerability tracked as CVE-2025-53766. Notably, this vulnerability requires no privileges or user interaction and can be exploited remotely over a network, making it a high-risk threat to web services that parse specially crafted metafiles.

We also identified a fifth crash while processing an EMR_STARTDOC record, which immediately appeared to be related to the CVE-2022-35837 vulnerability. An access violation exception happened in the StringLengthWorkerW() function within version 10.0.26100.3624 of gdi32full.dll while attempting to read memory at the end of a 288/0x120 bytes heap block. The stack trace suggests that the issue may lie with the StringLengthWorkerW() function, which performs a length check on user-controlled data and assumes the input is a null-terminated string. However, if the provided string is not null-terminated, the function may read beyond the allocated buffer, leading to potential information disclosure. This bug was addressed with KB5062553 in the July 2025 Patch Tuesday as an important severity information disclosure vulnerability tracked as CVE-2025-47984. MSRC classified it as CWE-693: Protection Mechanism Failure, indicating that the security fix to address CVE-2022-35837 was incomplete.

Security vulnerabilities can persist undetected for years, often resurfacing due to incomplete fixes. A particular information disclosure vulnerability, despite being formally addressed with a security patch, remained active for years due to the original issue receiving only a partial fix. This example underscores a basic conundrum for researchers: introducing a vulnerability is often easy, fixing it can be difficult, and verifying that a fix is both thorough and effective is even more challenging. Comprehensive and continuous security testing, using verification techniques that must be constantly updated and improved, is crucial. This effort can be greatly enhanced by close collaboration between vendors and security researchers, including sharing planned fixes with the researchers who initially reported the issue.

To read the complete article see: [Complete Article](https://research.checkpoint.com/2025/drawn-to-danger-windows-graphics-vulnerabilities-lead-to-remote-code-execution-and-memory-exposure/)  
