---
title: Empire Market co-founder faces 10 years to life after guilty plea
date: 2026-01-30
categories: [CRIME]
tags: [EMPIRE MARKET,GUILTY PLEA,DARK WEB,CRIMINAL CHARGES]
---

Empire Market co-founder Raheim Hamilton pleaded guilty to U.S. drug conspiracy charges in Chicago, facing a mandatory 10 years to life in prison. Raheim Hamilton (30) of Virginia, co-creator of the dark web marketplace Empire Market, pleaded guilty in Chicago to a federal drug conspiracy charge. The charge carries a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years in prison and up to life. Sentencing for Hamilton is scheduled for June 17, 2026, following an investigation led by U.S. law enforcement agencies.

Empire Market allowed users to anonymously buy and sell illegal goods. The platform handled more than four million transactions worth over $430 million, mainly involving illegal drugs, stolen credentials, personal data, counterfeit money, and hacking tools. Drug sales alone accounted for nearly $375 million. Hamilton admitted the site was designed to evade law enforcement and launder criminal proceeds using cryptocurrency only. The dark web marketplace featured multiple categories of illicit goods such as illegal drugs, counterfeit items, Software & Malware, and credit card numbers. The platform allowed its users to pay using Bitcoin (BTC), Monero (XMR), and Litecoin (LTC). The two operators used cryptocurrency to conceal the nature and identities involved in the illicit transactions and encouraged users to use 'tumbling' services, which mix and exchange cryptocurrencies to obscure their origin and connection to the marketplace. The dark web marketplace shut down in 2020, leaving users without time to withdraw funds from their escrow accounts.

In June 2024, two men, Thomas Pavey (aka 'Dopenugget') and Raheim Hamilton (aka 'Sydney' and 'Zero Angel'), were charged in federal court in Chicago for operating the dark web marketplace 'Empire Market' from 2018 to 2020. The authorities charged them with various crimes, including drug trafficking, computer fraud, access device fraud, counterfeiting, and money laundering, which carry a maximum sentence of life in federal prison. Pavey and Hamilton face charges for five counts: Conspiracy to sell counterfeit U.S. currency on AlphaBay; Conspiracy to distribute controlled substances through Empire Market; Conspiracy to possess unauthorized access devices; Conspiracy to sell counterfeit currency on Empire Market; and Conspiracy to commit money laundering to conceal proceeds from illegal activities. As part of his plea, Hamilton agreed to forfeit large amounts of Bitcoin, Ether, and properties. During the investigation, the feds seized $75 million worth of cryptocurrency at the time of the seizures, as well as cash and precious metals. Pavey, who pleaded guilty last year, faces similar penalties and asset forfeiture.

To read the complete article see: [Security Affairs](https://securityaffairs.com/187478/cyber-crime/empire-market-co-founder-faces-10-years-to-life-after-guilty-plea.html)